THE BODY AS A CULTURAL OBJECT
Apparently, the body belongs to nature: its metabolism, physiology, ergonomics,
biomechanics, etc., are similar to that of many animals. This division between body and soul
(body/nature x soul/culture), constitutes the West since antiquity and obscures the
how much the human body (any human body) is the result of social and
cultural appropriations. Each body is also constituted by discourses (adjectives,
praise, appreciation/refusal of certain “parts”), for different knowledge (tradition, medicine,
biochemistry, ethology, anthropology, feminism, etc.) and expresses the resulting complex of
many social conditions. Pierre Clastres (1990), when dealing with torture in societies
primitive, considers that writing exists as a function of the law and that the law finds forms of
to inscribe oneself in unexpected spaces, such as the body, for example. The examples are
various: from the amputation of the hands of thieves in Islam, to the tattooing of prisoners in
Nazi concentration camps, past the four-inch feet of women
Chinese women, up to the current silicone and hair removal prostheses, each society inscribes its law
in the bodies of its members. In this sense, Foucault (1980) understands the body as the
 REASON AND WORD
First Electronic Magazine in Latin America Specialized in Communication
 www.razonypalabra.org.mx
“Deporte, Culture and Communication”, Number 69
privileged locus of action of power and social control. So the bodies would bring
imprinted on itself the marks of culture and not of nature.
Marcel Mauss (1974), in the text As Técnicas Corporais, from 1935, highlights the way in which
each different culture teaches its members specific ways to use their bodies:
all people sleep, eat, walk, rest, etc., but each society does so in a different way.
a different way. One sleeps in hammocks, mats, sitting or on the back of a horse;
some things are eaten and not others and at certain times and places (for example, in the
Brazil, cod is eaten on Good Friday); Likewise, each culture has a
repertoire of body techniques that are taught from generation to generation and that
imply ways of using the body to hunt, herd, plant, sew, shape
objects, fight, scream, sing, etc.

The American anthropologist Margaret Mead (1978), in her classic Sex and Temperament,
1936, highlights the differential way in which, within the same culture,
boys and girls are raised and how gender idealizations preside over treatment
given to every child in a culture. Boys and girls are trained in techniques
distinct bodies, resulting in bodies markedly different in physical strength,
skills and meanings. As an example, we can think of toys that
we give our children: for boys, a ball, which requires intense physical activity,
it must be practiced on the street, in broad socialization networks, “man's things”; to the
girls, dolls, which demand minimal physical activity, must be practiced within
home, in domestic socialization networks, learning to take care of the house and take care of
children, "women's things".
An extreme case of how each culture builds the body of its members can be
thought from the pathologies it causes. Susan Bordo, in the great book Unbearable
Weight (“Unbearable Weight”) talks about the transformations of Western culture about the
body from the time of Freud until today, with regard to psychopathologies. Each
society produces its own diseases. In Freud's time, hysteria
evidenced/crystallized a female situation of unbearable subordination to norms,
resulting in blind, paralyzed, mute, fainting, etc. Today, don't
hear more about hysteria as in Freud's time, but we create our own
psychopathologies such as anorexia nervosa and bulimia, diseases that did not exist 100 years ago
 REASON AND WORD
First Electronic Magazine in Latin America Specialized in Communication
 www.razonypalabra.org.mx
“Deporte, Culture and Communication”, Number 69
years old. What do these diseases express? Social coercion on the female body, victim
of idealizations widely disseminated by the mass media, another
factor that was not present in Freud's society.
THE BODY IN THE MEDIA
The role of the media in society can be thought of from its power to propose
definitions of reality via scheduling and thematization. In these definitions of
reality, in addition to a work of reproduction of elements of culture and society
that constitutes it and in which it actively participates, this work can also be perceived
concomitant discursive production and institution of meanings. The set of speeches
of the media (magazines, newspapers, television, radio, cinema, etc.)
‘voices’ proposing different definitions of what is “right”, “good” or “beautiful”. These
definitions are presented subtly, without fuss: they are just there – or not
they are. Not long ago, the percentage of black people in the TV world
Brazilian was and around 2 to 6%, in a society where 44% declare themselves to be black or
brown (the number is probably higher). Likewise, in my research on
women's magazine, entitled Corpo-Verão, I counted the attributes of the women who
appear on the cover of 57 different magazine titles: in 98% of the covers,
images of women, a characteristic that reinforces and updates an exhibition process
woman's social; except in the magazine Raça Brasil (publication addressed to the
black community), in all the others, the woman on the cover is white, which configures
a kind of symbolic exclusion that values ​​characteristics of a racial pattern
White. In 100% of cases, the woman on the cover is thin: a basic attribute of bodies
discourses of this media. In 75% of cases, a “celebrity” appears on the cover, which
seems to work as an identification element that aims at a possible effect of
recognition.
Product of a social demand and of a historical context that define its directions, the
women's press and its history, or the publications that preceded it, is confused
with the history of the printing press that emerged from Gutenberg's invention around
from 1450. The first record of a publication aimed at women dates from only one
century later: in 1554, Il libro della bella donna, by F. Luigi, by
according to Mary Del Priore (2000). From then on, the phenomenon of the women's magazine,
 REASON AND WORD
First Electronic Magazine in Latin America Specialized in Communication
 www.razonypalabra.org.mx
“Deporte, Culture and Communication”, Number 69
since its beginnings, it has increasingly kept conquering its space in a
social market that moves very high numbers and stimulates alliances and competitions
fierce in the economic sector. The phenomenon emerged in Europe in the 18th century, reaching
in Brazil only much later, in 1827, having grown with great vitality,
reaching today the position of second place in the circulation ranking of the
magazines, second only to the editions of the weekly news magazines.
The women's press, this business of gigantic proportions, is controlled in its
almost entirely by three large business groups. Despite the existence of a large
variety of small publishers responsible for one or two titles each, the
publishers Abril, Symbol and Globo together account for 29 titles and more than 8 million
copies per month. Editora Abril is the largest magazine publisher in Latin America. At
magazines are the publisher's main product and represent 64% of the group's business.
Currently, it provides 233 magazine titles per year, which are read by 30 million
of people. In 2000, the publisher reached the mark of 224 million copies
sold and 4.6 million subscriptions (more than two-thirds of the entire subscription base
country), running 47,700 pages of advertisements.
Traversa (1997) points to the considerable emergence, in the 1920s, of products
advertised as remedies – creams, soaps and powders – for visible surface ailments
of the body, exposed to the gaze of the other, and, more than that, for the maximum portion of exhibition
of the body: the face. Based on Traversa's semiological research, which takes as its object the
women's press from 1918 to 1940, we can see the movement of management devices
of the modern experience still in force. At the same time, under the management of the media,
the human body is laid out in its nakedness in a public square – both in magazines and
masculine and feminine – to be tutored by pedagogies that weave and
legitimize the characteristics that this body “must have”.
Magazines propose “what” are the needs, projects, desires, “what” is
need to aim in the name of a supposed "happiness". It should be noted that this offer of
meaning is conditioned, by force of market laws, to its recognition and
acceptance in the social field, that is, its resonance in the imaginary of society. In this
social process, not only the media, but social groups in general, propose direction to the
individuals to fill the "proper" places, to be a "normal" member of that
 REASON AND WORD
First Electronic Magazine in Latin America Specialized in Communication
 www.razonypalabra.org.mx
“Deporte, Culture and Communication”, Number 69
society. The segmentation of media audiences, directing your products to audiences of
different genders and sexes such as women's magazines, illustrates this process.
This study was initially motivated by the observation of the relationship between women and
your Alimentation. A relationship that, in my view, is not based on a direct equation: hunger and nutrient intake, but which is guided by a series of implications of an order
affective, such as self-image, guilt, anxiety, rejection, and fear. feminine affections that
often lead to more serious pathologies such as depression, anorexia nervosa and
bulimia. In this way, my initial concern was formalized in the examination of a certain body
of a woman who is made in the discourses of the interior of the body of the magazine
