Want to understand everything about wines? Check out!

Wines are great options for gifting! They bring all the charm and admiration to the occasions, especially if the recipient is a drinker. But how to choose the ideal wine and hit the preference of those who receive the souvenir?


To solve this problem, we've outlined everything you should know before buying the bottle and gift-wrapping it. Check out!

types of wines
Before going out in search of the ideal wine for a gift, it is necessary to understand the differences between each type. From color to sugar content, flavor, intensity and method of preparation differ greatly. Understand:

Coloring
whites
Vinified like other wines, they are produced with mostly white grapes.

rosé
Made from red grapes, which remain in contact with the must for a shorter period. Therefore, they are fermented and extracted with less pigmentation. The color of the wine will depend on the choice of winery.

how to choose wine

reds
Produced from red grapes, which remain in contact with the must for a longer time; the extraction of tannins will be greater, making the wines more acidic and concentrated.

Class
champagne
Sparkling wine with an alcoholic strength between 12º and 16º.

calm
They are classified as noble, fine, common, carbonated or sparkling. Alcohol content between 10º and 13º.

liqueurs
A liqueur, properly. Alcohol content between 15º and 18º.

sugar content
Mild: sweeter wines, with more than 20g of sugar per litre.
Medium sweet: from 5g to 20g of sugar per litre.
Dry: up to 5g of sugar per litre.

choice of wine
Appreciating wines is not a practice that is acquired quickly, it is a long process in order to educate the palate. However, if the occasion is to choose the ideal drink to gift someone, care must be redoubled.

how to choose wine

Therefore, see in the cases below the drink recommendations for each type of connoisseur:

For those who are starting
If the recipient is a beginner in drinks, starting with red wines, which contain little acidity, are soft in the mouth and contemplate the aroma of ripe fruits can be a good way to not attack the taste and the experience altogether.

Recommended grapes:

Pinot Noir
Zinfandel
Merlot
for those who already understand
If he is someone who already knows the aromas and flavors, in general, choosing the ideal wine becomes an easier task.

Full-bodied, dry, intense wines with a slight presence of tannin can be great options for more experienced connoisseurs. These characteristics are more present in barrel-aged or barrel-aged wines.

Recommended grapes:

Cabernet Sauvignon
garnacha
Pinotage
not to make mistakes
Whether for beginners or more experienced connoisseurs, there are options that will please most palates. They are the lightest and least intense wines, with fruity aromas and more pleasant tannins.

how to choose wine

If you are unsure of your choice, opting for “intermediate” wines is the best way to go.

Recommended grapes:

Merlot
Primitive
Cabernet Sauvignon
